RADRELAY(8)		       FreeRADIUS Daemon		   RADRELAY(8)



NAME
       radrelay -- Deprecated command.

DESCRIPTION
       The  functions  of radrelay have been added to radiusd.	One benefit is
       that one instance of radiusd can read multiple detail files, among oth-
       ers.

       The  rlm_sql_log  module  does  something similar, but for SQL queries.
       See it's man page for details.

REPLICATION FOR BACKUPS
       Many sites run multiple radius servers; at least one  primary  and  one
       backup  server.	When the primary goes down, most NASes detect that and
       switch to the backup server.

       That will cause your accounting packets to go the the backup  server  -
       and  some  NASes  don't	even switch back to the primary server when it
       comes back up.

       The result is that accounting records are missed, and/or  the  adminis-
       trator must jump through hoops in order to combine the different detail
       files from multiple servers. It also means that	the  session  database
       ("radutmp", used for radwho and simultaneous use detection) gets out of
       sync.

       We solve this issue by "relaying" packets from one server  to  another,
       so they both have the same set of accounting data.

       See raddb/sites-available/buffered-sql for more information.

BUFFERING FOR HIGH-LOAD SERVERS
       If the RADIUS server suddenly receives a many accounting packets, there
       may be insufficient CPU power to process them all in a  timely  manner.
       This  problem  is  especially noticable when the accounting packets are
       going to a back-end database.

       Similarly, you may have one database that tracks "live"	sessions,  and
       another	that tracks historical accounting data.  In that case, access-
       ing the first database is fast, as it is small.	Accessing  the	second
       database  many be slower, as it may contain multiple gigabytes of data.
       In addition, writing to the first database in a timely manner is impor-
       tant,  while data may be written to the second database with a few min-
       utes delay, without any harm being done.

       See raddb/sites-available/copy-to-home-server for more information.

SEE ALSO
       radiusd(8), rlm_sql_log(5)

AUTHOR
       The FreeRADIUS Server Project



				23 October 2007 		   RADRELAY(8)
