radrelay.conf(5)	 FreeRADIUS configuration file	      radrelay.conf(5)



NAME
       radrelay.conf - configuration file for the FreeRADIUS server "radrelay"
       personality

DESCRIPTION
       The radrelay.conf file resides in the  radius  database	directory,  by
       default	/etc/raddb.   It  defines  the	global	configuration  for the
       FreeRADIUS server, when the server is operating as "radrelay".

FILE FORMAT
       For a detailed description of the file format, see "man	radiusd.conf".
       The  configuration  entries are much the same for radrelay.conf, with a
       few differences as noted here.

REPLICATION FOR BACKUPS
       Many sites run multiple radius servers; at least one  primary  and  one
       backup  server.	When the primary goes down, most NASes detect that and
       switch to the backup server.

       That will cause your accounting packets to go the the backup  server  -
       and  some  NASes  don't	even switch back to the primary server when it
       comes back up.

       The result is that accounting records are missed, and/or  the  adminis-
       trator must jump through hoops in order to combine the different detail
       files from multiple servers. It also means that	the  session  database
       ("radutmp", used for radwho and simultaneous use detection) gets out of
       sync.

       radrelay solves this issue by "relaying" packets  from  one  server  to
       another, so they both have the same set of accounting data.

BUFFERING FOR HIGH-LOAD SERVERS
       If the RADIUS server suddenly receives a many accounting packets, there
       may be insufficient CPU power to process them all in a  timely  manner.
       This  problem  is  especially noticable when the accounting packets are
       going to a back-end database.

       Similarly, you may have one database that tracks "live"	sessions,  and
       another	that tracks historical accounting data.  In that case, access-
       ing the first database is fast, as it is small.	Accessing  the	second
       database  many be slower, as it may contain multiple gigabytes of data.
       In addition, writing to the first database in a timely manner is impor-
       tant,  while data may be written to the second database with a few min-
       utes delay, without any harm being done.

RELAYING OF ACCOUNTING PACKETS
       The radrelay.conf file  controls  the  "radrelay"  personality  of  the
       server, which can perform both of the functions above at the same time.

USAGE
       First, you should configure the main radius server to log to an	extra,
       single  detail  file.   This may be done by adding an extra instance of
       the detail module to radiusd.conf:

       For example:


		   detail radrelay-detail {
			detailfile = ${radacctdir}/radrelay/detail
			detailperm = 0600
			dirperm = 0755
			locking = yes
		   }
		   ...
		   accounting {
			...
			radrelay-detail
			...
		   }

       This configuration will cause accounting packets to be  logged  to  the
       ${radacctdir}/radrelay/detail file.  This file should not be rotated by
       standard log rotation scripts, as the radrelay program  will  read  and
       rotate it.

RADRELAY.CONF EXAMPLE
       See  the  radrelay.conf file for detailed instructions on configuration
       entries, what they mean, and how to use them.

       To have the "radrelay" portion of the  server  read  the  above	detail
       file, configure radrelay.conf with the following section:


		   listen {
			type = detail
			detail = ${radacctdir}/radrelay/detail
			max_outstanding = 100
			identity = radrelay
		   }


       The  server  will read the accounting packets from the detail file, and
       process them just as if it had received them from the NAS.   Therefore,
       you should configure the "accounting" section of radrelay.conf to write
       the accounting records to an "sql" module, or to proxy them to  another
       RADIUS server.

       Then, start the server via the following command:

       $ radiusd -n radrelay

       The  server should start up, read the detail file, and process account-
       ing packets from it.

NOTES
       The radiusd.conf file is not read at all when the server is running  as
       radrelay.  Please edit radrelay.conf.

CREDITS
       The  original  "radrelay" program was written by Miquel van Smoorenburg
       for the Cistron radius project,	and  ported  to  FreeRADIUS  by  Simon
       Ekstrand.   The	"radsqlrelay"  was written by Kostas Kalavras.	It was
       never released as part of an offical FreeRADIUS release, but served  as
       a basis for the design of this implementation.


FILES
       /etc/raddb/radrelay.conf

SEE ALSO
       radiusd(8), radiusd.conf(5)

AUTHOR
       Alan DeKok <aland@ox.org>



				  27 May 2005		      radrelay.conf(5)
