USERS(5)	      FreeRADIUS user authorization file	      USERS(5)



NAME
       users - user authorization file for the FreeRADIUS server

DESCRIPTION
       The  users  file  resides  in the RADIUS database directory, by default
       /etc/raddb.  It contains a series of configuration directives which are
       used  by  the  files module to decide how to authorize and authenticate
       each user request.

       Every line starting with a hash sign ('#') is treated  as  comment  and
       ignored.

       Each  entry of the file begins with a username, followed by a (possibly
       empty) list of check items, all on one line.  The next line begins with
       a  tab,	and  a (possibly empty) list of reply items.  Each item in the
       check or reply item list is an attribute of  the  form  name  =	value.
       Multiple  items	may  be placed on one line, in which case they must be
       seperated by commas.  The reply items may be  specified	over  multiple
       lines, in which case each line must end with a comma, and the last line
       of the reply items must not end with a comma.

       The check items are a list of attributes used  to  match  the  incoming
       request.  If the username matches, AND all of the check items match the
       incoming request, then the  reply  items  are  added  to  the  list  of
       attributes  which  will	be  used  in  the reply to that request.  This
       process is repeated for all of the entries in the users file.

       If the incoming request matches NO entry, then the request is rejected.


CAVEATS
       The special username DEFAULT matches any usernames.

       The  entries are processed in order, from the top of the users file, on
       down.  If an entry contains the special item Fall-Through  =  No  as  a
       reply  attribute,  then	the  processing of the file stops, and no more
       entries are matched.  Any reply	item  list  without  any  Fall-Through
       attribute  is  treated  as  though  it  included  a  Fall-Through  = No
       attribute.

       If an entry contains the special item Fall-Through =  Yes  as  a  reply
       attribute, then the processing proceeds to the next entry in order.

       Care  should  be  taken	when using Fall-Through.  The server should be
       tested in debugging mode with a number of test requests,  in  order  to
       verify that the configured entries behave as expected.

       The  special attribute Auth-Type is used to identify the authentication
       type to be used for that user.  See the dictionary file for a  list  of
       permitted values for the Auth-Type attribute.

       Once  the  users file has been processed, the request is authenticated,
       using the method given by Auth-Type.


OPERATORS
       Additional operators other than = may be used  for  the	attributes  in
       either  the check item, or reply item list.  The following is a list of
       operators, and their meaning.


       Attribute = Value
	    Not allowed as a check item for RADIUS protocol attributes.  It is
	    allowed  for server configuration attributes (Auth-Type, etc), and
	    sets the value of on attribute, only if there is no other item  of
	    the same attribute.
	    As	a  reply  item,  it means "add the item to the reply list, but
	    only if there is no other item of the same attribute."


       Attribute := Value
	    Always matches as a check item, and replaces in the  configuration
	    items  any	attribute  of  the same name.  If no attribute of that
	    name appears in the request, then this attribute is added.
	    As a reply item, it has an identical meaning, but  for  the  reply
	    items, instead of the request items.


       Attribute == Value
	    As	a  check item, it matches if the named attribute is present in
	    the request, AND has the given value.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute += Value
	    Always matches as a check item, and  adds  the  current  attribute
	    with value to the list of configuration items.
	    As a reply item, it has an identical meaning, but the attribute is
	    added to the reply items.


       Attribute != Value
	    As a check item, matches if the given attribute is in the request,
	    AND does not have the given value.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute > Value
	    As	a  check item, it matches if the request contains an attribute
	    with a value greater than the one given.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute >= Value
	    As a check item, it matches if the request contains  an  attribute
	    with a value greater than, or equal to the one given.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute < Value
	    As	a  check item, it matches if the request contains an attribute
	    with a value less than the one given.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute <= Value
	    As a check item, it matches if the request contains  an  attribute
	    with a value less than, or equal to the one given.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute =~ Expression
	    As	a  check item, it matches if the request contains an attribute
	    which matches the given regular  expression.   This  operator  may
	    only be applied to string attributes.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute !~ Expression
	    As	a  check item, it matches if the request contains an attribute
	    which does not match the given regular expression.	This  operator
	    may only be applied to string attributes.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute =* Value
	    As	a  check  item,  it  matches if the request contains the named
	    attribute, no matter what the value is.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


       Attribute !* Value
	    As a check item, it matches if the request does  not  contain  the
	    named attribute, no matter what the value is.
	    Not allowed as a reply item.


EXAMPLES
	      bob  Cleartext-Password := "hello"


	      Requests	containing  the User-Name attribute, with value "bob",
	      will be authenticated using the "known good"  password  "hello".
	      There are no reply items, so the reply will be empty.


	      DEFAULT	Auth-Type = System
		   Fall-Through = Yes


	      For  all	users  reaching  this  entry,  perform	authentication
	      against the system,  unless  Auth-Type  has  already  been  set.
	      Also, process any following entries which may match.


	      DEFAULT Service-Type == Framed-User, Framed-Protocol == PPP
		   Service-Type = Framed-User,
		   Framed-Protocol = PPP,
		   Fall-Through = Yes


	      If  the  request packet contains the attributes Service-Type and
	      Framed-Protocol, with  the  given  values,  then	include  those
	      attributes in the reply.

	      That is, give the user what they ask for.  This entry also shows
	      how to specify multiple reply items.

       See the users file supplied with the server for more examples and  com-
       ments.


HINTS
       Run the server in debugging mode (-X), and use the radclient program to
       send it test packets which you think will match specific entries.   The
       server  will  print out which entries were matched for that request, so
       you can verify your expectations.  This should be the FIRST  thing  you
       do if you suspect problems with the file.

       Care  should  be  taken when writing entries for the users file.  It is
       easy to misconfigure the server so that requests are accepted when  you
       wish  to  reject  them.	 The  entries should be ordered, and the Fall-
       Through item should be used ONLY where it is required.

       Entries rejecting certain requests should go at the top	of  the  file,
       and  should not have a Fall-Through item in their reply items.  Entries
       for specific users, who do not have a Fall-Through  item,  should  come
       next.   Any  DEFAULT  entries should usually come last, except as fall-
       through entries that set reply attributes.


FILES
       /etc/raddb/users

SEE ALSO
       radclient(1), radiusd(8), dictionary(5), naslist(5)


AUTHOR
       The FreeRADIUS team.



				  04 Jan 2004			      USERS(5)
